# 005

# EFFICIENCY (_AND A LITTLE MUSIC_)

_2026 04 17_

Hello again. It's been a while since I wrote something here.

Life has been pretty hectic. Two kids, job hunting, and everything else you can imagine.

Anyway, I want to talk about the efficiency bros and (mostly) Neovim.

You know the bros I'm talking about, right? The Primeagen is, I think, the most popular one. The ones hyping up VIM motions, Neovim, tmux, and such, saying that it will boost your efficiency and make you work faster.

And that's all good. I mean, all of these terminal tools can be really efficient. But to me that seems like such a boring approach to learning a new tool.

The main reason I started learning VIM motions in neovim was that I had a potato for a computer when studying Java programming. As anyone who has ever used IntelliJ will know, it will eat up your RAM and CPU. This led me naturally to Neovim with LazyVim (I am not great with Lua scripting, and at this point I'm not very interested in it). Maybe in due time, which used VIM motions. It took a couple of days to get used to the modular ways of Neovim, but once it stuck, I loved it. I have no idea whatsoever if it makes me more efficient, but to me that's besides the point.

Once I learned the basics, I noticed that I had a lot more fun programming using VIM motions. It felt like playing a game, and I was getting better and better at it. After a while I heard about Tmux, and it felt like such a fun way to use the terminal. But when I wanted to find tips and tricks or whatever for Neovim and Tmux, most of the material I found was about getting fucking efficient.

I'm not really sure where I'm going with this, but I feel like, even at a recreational level, you are expected to be such a fucking pro at things. Doing and learning things for fun seems like it has somewhat died? I realize that I don't have to spend time online to see how other people are using the same tools that I use, but damn it, sometimes I want to.

If you are reading this, I just wanna tell you, whatever endeavor you take on, make sure to find the passion in it and have fun. Stop min-maxing, and just enjoy your time doing the thing.

## A MUSIC PLAYER

On a totally different note, I just got an MP3 player! Or a "DAC," as it is called these days. I got the Snowsky Echo Mini for 950 sek (about 100 USD), and so far it has really brought back how I used to listen to music.

No distractions, just me and my music.

I don't really have that much to add; I just wanted to share. Right now I listen a lot to Minor Threat. Man they are great, especially their first two releases.

Stay cool and hydrated!
